[digital jingle]
Brandon: Hey, welcome back
to another EarSketch video.
My name is Brandon and I'm
a member of the EarSketch team.
Today I'm going to talk
to you about variables.
So to put it simply variables
are a way
to store a piece of information
within a script.
This could be a number,
a sound constant,
a string, any of the datatypes
we've learned about.
And all these data types
are a form of information
that we can use.
So to use a variable
we give the variable a name
and then assign it a value,
this information,
and what makes variables so cool
is that we can use them
to hold any of these data types,
this information,
and then reuse that information
multiple times whenever we want.
And if we want to make changes
to the information
we're using in our script,
like maybe we want to swap out
one sound constant for another,
all we have to do is change
what information
is assigned to our variables.
So variables can end up
saving us a lot of time.
Let's take a look at this
in EarSketch
and you'll see what I mean.
So let's start.
Let's create a new script.
I'm going to name
the script “Variables.”
We're given the standard items
we need
for an EarSketch script here,
the “init” function which starts
a new music project in EarSketch
and the set tempo function
which I'm actually going
to slow down our tempo
to 100 beats per minute.
And at the end of our script
like always
I have the finished function
which gets all the music
ready to play inside the DAW.
So let's define
our first variable.
To do this,
we need to give it a name,
usually something descriptive,
and then assign it a value,
this information.
And we do this by using
the assignment operator
which is just the equal sign
but, in this case,
it’s not functioning
exactly like an equal sign.
It's saying assign the value
on the right
to the variable name
on the left.
So here we go.
Let's call our variable Synth 1
and assign it to a sound
constant from the sound browser.
Synth sound. Let's see.
I like this one.
The variable is now
holding the sound
so let's use it in our music
by inserting
a fitMedia function call.
So in a spot
where we get fitMedia sound
I'm going to use
our variable Synth 1
because it's holding our sound.
I’ll put it on track 1
starting at measure 1
and ending at measure 2.
I’ll press run so we can listen.
[electronic beat]
All right now we have
successfully used one variable,
but I want to flesh
this out a bit more.
So let's define a couple more.
I'm going to create
a second variable
for a second synth sound,
Synth 2,
and assignment to the
sound constant
for hip hop solo Mog lead 1.
And I’ll define a variable
for my drums as well right here.
Now to make more
of a complete song
I'm going to add
a whole bunch of fitMedia calls.
Each one using
one of my three variables.
So as you can see my synth
sounds are all on track 1
and they kind of alternate back
and forth
while my drums are on track two
so that they'll play
throughout the whole song
from Measure 1 to 9.
I'll see what this sounds like.
[hip-hop synth song]
All right so what's
the big deal here?
I could have just entered
or pasted
in the sound consent names
for all of these fitMedia calls.
But what if I wanted to change
one of my sounds?
Let's say I wanted to change
my Synth 1 sound
to some other hip-hop sound.
If I wasn't using variables,
I'd have to go through
and change all
these fitMedia calls manually.
Now imagine if I had
50 fitMedia calls
maybe for a full song.
It would take forever
to go through and change
that many lines in my script.
But because
I use variables
I can swap out
my sounds really quickly.
I can just change the assignment
statement at the top here.
Every time I use synth 1 below
it will use
the updated sound instead,
and the same concept can apply
to other data types as well.
So this whole idea of being able
to make quick changes
in our scripts with variables
is kind of central
to music making.
Often the first time we listen
to something we've made
we think about
how it can be improved
or how it could be better.
So we go back
and we make some changes,
then listen again
and maybe our music is better
and maybe it's not,
but we kind of stick
with this cycle
of constantly improving
our music and making changes.
And what's so important
about variables
is it allows us
to experiment like this
until we have a piece of music
that we're really proud of.
So go ahead and try using
some variables in your scripts.
You'll find it's easier
to make changes and easier
to nail that exact sound
that you're looking for.
That's it for this video.
Thanks for watching.
[digital jingle]